                                 NODE9 HACKERS GUIDE

(NOTE: This is early documentation release.  All features may not yet be
implemented. Features under development are enclosed in parens.)

CONTENTS

- Introduction and Overview
- A Simple Example
- Major Subsystems
- Theory of Operation
- Target Applications
- Current Status (06/01/2015)
- Source Code Structure
- Major Changes From Inferno
- Build, User and Portability Notes
- Status and Current Focus

INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW

Node9 is a hosted 64-bit operating system based on Bell Lab's Inferno OS that
uses the Lua scripting language instead of Limbo and the LuaJIT high-peformance
virtual machine instead of the Dis virtual machine.  It also uses the libuv
I/O library to maintain maximum portability, efficient event processing and thread
management on POSIX and Windows platforms.

Node9 embraces a highly interactive programming environment optimized for the
needs of distributed computing based on the Plan9/Inferno 9p resource sharing
protocol, per-process namespace security and application message channels.

While Lua and the underlying Inferno system API enable the rapid development of
scientific and research software, its kernel is designed to also support zero
copy, high-performance IO and event interfaces on the web. Notably the libuv
eventing library that Node9 uses for portable I/O and event management is the
same library used in the 'NodeJS' web application system.

Asynchronous events are handled via concurrent Lua tasks (coroutines) that
communicate via message channels. Combined with the cloud-oriented kernel, most
tasks can be solved in a standard functional/OO style even when the problem
domain would normally require difficult callback style programming.

Node9 applications are mostly developed in Lua.  Node9 network services can be
programmed in Lua or C, depending on needs.  Node9 is compatible at the network
layer with both Plan9 and Inferno. Inferno's statically-typed application
channels will need some filtering as Node9's message channels have no such
limitations.

Since Lua has no built-in threading limitations, Node9 also supports full
multithreading.  Node9 Lua threads can communicate with Node9 tasks via message
channels.  In fact, in Node9's each user session is allocated its own 
OS thread. Node9 threads can communicate via applicaton channels and OS
pipes.

Node9 boots into a shell which supports both immediate mode Lua expression
evaluation as well as Lua applications and library modules.  Node9
applications are Lua scripts which can be simple standalone command files (as
well as "application directories" containing all application code, support
libraries, resources and configuration settings.  This allows applications to
be easily installed and removed.)

(While the primary user console of Node9 is a powerful scripting shell, it also
comes with a small web-based management GUI for cloud environments.  Node9 also
has extensive graphics capabilities when installed on a host supporting the
OpenGL/Vulcan shader interface.)

Node9 distributed networks communicate via 9p resource sharing, optionally using
SSL/TLS connections.

A SIMPLE EXAMPLE

The following is the command line application that implements the "unmount"
command:

------
usage = "unmount [source] target"

function fail(status, msg)
	sys.fprint(sys.fildes(2), "unmount: %s\n", msg);
	error("fail:" .. status)
end

function nomod(mod)
    fail("load", string.format("can't load %s: %s", mod, sys.errstr()))
end

function init(argv)
    sys = import("sys")
    buffers = import("buffers")    
    arg = import('arg')
    
    -- massage the argument list 
    
    if not arg then nomod('arg') end
    arg.setusage(usage)
    
    local opts = arg.getopt(argv,"")
    
    local argl = arg.strip()
    
    if #argl < 1 or #argl > 2 then arg.usage() end
    
    local target = table.remove(argl)
    
    local source = argl[1]
    
    -- and unmount
    local rc = sys.unmount(source, target)
    
    if rc < 0 then 
        fail("unmount", string.format("unmount failed because: %s", sys.errstr()))
    end
    
end
-----

MAJOR CHANGES FROM INFERNO

Node9 required extensive modification of the original Inferno source
distribution to refocus the design towards an interactive Lua virtual machine
and cloud-optimized kernel.

The primary kernel change was to remove Limbo and the Dis virtual machine
structure and replace it with the LuaJIT virtual machine.  This required a
complete refactor of the VM process architecture in order to interface with the
original Plan9 kernel components.  To maintain performance and JIT stability
scheduler duties were segregated between the Lua coroutine system and the 
hosted kernel C threads.

This refactor also required a redesign of how systems calls were issued from 
Lua tasks into the C kernel -- adopting a "shadow" process concept.

Currently the legacy Inferno kernel manages memory and resources for kernel
objects and LuaJIT manages memory for Lua apps.  The legacy memory manager was
patched to allow 64-bit operation.

Since Node9 is a portable, hosted OS it requires multi-platform support for its
underlying kernel I/O and eventing functions.  Because of this and the desire
to create a portable, cloud-optimized kernel we used the hardware abstraction
layer provided by 'libuv' to obviate the need for Inferno's legacy
multi-platform support.

SUBSYSTEMS and STRUCTURES

- Legacy Kernel Design and Components -

The Inferno OS consists of the Dis virtual machine which runs compiled Limbo
code and makes system calls into a slightly modified Plan9 kernel.  The full
Dis threading and syscall structure is somewhat unconventional and outside the
scope of this document.

The legacy kernel is small with a round-robin scheduler and includes numerous
"servers" which are kernel devices that expose their services via mountable
"namespaces".  Once mounted, you can interact with a device simply by
opening its control and I/O channels as if you are opening files. Once opened
you can issue commands to the device through it's control file and read and
write its I/O channels.  This is a design feature common to Plan9, Inferno
and Node9.

For further details please refer to the following design, operation and
programming guides:

Inferno Man Pages:
    http://www.vitanuova.com/inferno/man/

The Inferno Styx Resource Sharing Protocol:
    http://www.vitanuova.com/inferno/man/5/0intro.html

Plan9 Kernel Theory of Operations:
    Plan9 Kernel Notes, 3rd Edition, Francisco Ballosteros

Inferno Installation, Operation and Development:
    Inferno Distribution Install Notes: ./inferno-os/doc/install.pdf
    Inferno Programming with Limbo, Phillip Stanley-Marbell

Kernel Servers

Though Plan9 and Inferno are very similar at the kernel level and share a good deal
of code, Inferno's device names vary slightly.  Node9 uses Inferno's device names
and default namespace structure.  Inferno's name services are used where applicable.

This is a short summary of each of the servers, their names and driver details.

server/device name  short name   description               namespace location
------------------  ----------   -----------               ------------------
cons                #c           system console            /dev
env                 #e           environment variables     /e
dup                 #d           tracks file handles       /fd
ip                  #I           TCP/IP stack              /net
prog                #p           process interface         /prog
root                #/           root file system          /
fs-posix            #U           host file system          (usually /)
ssl                 #D           SSL stream filter         (can't be mounted)
pipe                #|           interprocess pipes        arbitrary
srv                 #s           lua namespace services    doesn't apply
cmd                 #C           host OS command execution /cmd
cap                 #¤           process privileges        <dir>/caphash
dynld(x)            #L           shared library loader     /dev/dynldc
indir               #*           device name aliasing      #*<long name>

- Lua -

Lua is a powerful, dynamic and light-weight programming language. It excels 
at functional and OO tasks without forcing the developer into a paradigm
straight jacket.  It's syntax is non-whitespace sensitive and similar
to Python or Pascal.

It may be embedded or used as a standalone language.

- LuaJIT Virtual Machine and the FFI -

LuaJIT is a Just-In-Time Compiler (JIT) for the Lua programming language.

LuaJIT has a powerful Foreign Funtion Interface which allows developers to 
dynamically bind into C structures and function calls.

- System Request Queue -

... process sys request records and request queue ...

- Backend Request Dispatcher -

... dispatch priority ...

- Request Handlers -

.. and how they execute in kernel proces context (shadow) ...

- System Response Queue -

... asynchronous queueing ...

THEORY OF OPERATION

- Bootstrap -

Although the kernel bootstrap code has been restructured somewhat, the
sequence is very similar to Plan9 and Inferno.  High level initialization
looks something like this:

   o Initialize the kernel heap
   o Initialize IO formatting
   o Save startup args and process options
   o Initialize host settings and signals
   o Create kernel base process from start function
   o Initialize the kernel devices / servers
   o Initialize the kernel namespace
   o Initialize host environment variables
   o Become the base process

- Lua Startup -

As soon as the base process starts it creates a Lua virtual machine state which
it initializes with the Lua bootstrap module.  It then starts the Lua bootstrap
module (os/init/nodeinit.lua).  The bootstrap module sythesizes the first Lua
task (cmd/sh), schedules it and starts the Lua kernel.

- Threads, Kernel Procs, Hosting Procs, Tasks and Virtual Procs -

Before moving on we need to carefully define some terms which have a very specific
meaning in Node9.

Thread: In Node9 a thread is a host OS thread.  OS threads are scheduled by the
host operating system.   Node9 uses libuv to portably support both POSIX threads
and Windows threads.

Kernel Proc: A kernel proc in Node9 is a C kernel process which lives inside a
host thread.  Like all processes it has it's own namespace, file handles etc.

Hosting Procs: A hosting proc is a kernel proc that hosts a Lua virtual machine. 
It starts, manages and services the VM's system calls.  The VM runs inside the
hosting proc's thread until a system call needs to be executed.

Tasks: Tasks are Lua "userspace" coroutines that perform work and communicate
with each other via event channels (more on that later).  Multiple tasks make
up an application.

Virtual Procs: A virtual proc is the kernel's shadow image of the Lua task.  It
contains the process ID, process structures and system request buffers for the
task.  When VM system calls actually execute, the kernel dispatches the request  
into an async thread pool.  The "worker" thread allocated to the system 
request temporarily becomes an actual kernel process and subsumes the thread
local state of the process for the duration of the request.
 
Libuv Event Loop

The libuv eventing system controls the synchronization of incoming events, I/O
and the dispatching of their respective handlers.  Each kernel proc has it's
own event loop.

Each iteration of the libuv event loop looks basically like this:

   - gather all ready I/O, timer and other events
   - execute the callbacks for all ready events

In a normal libuv application the event loop runs continously until the
application finishes.  Node9 is slightly different in that the Lua kernel runs
each iteration of the libuv event loop. In between event loop iterations it
runs all ready Lua tasks.

Lua Scheduler Sweep

After the Lua bootstrap function constructs the first Lua task it starts the
Lua kernel which calls the Lua task scheduler.  The scheduler examines the
system call response queue and transfers control to each Lua task that is 
now ready to run.  After this it runs any other Lua tasks that are ready 
(possibly because they voluntarily released the CPU).

When all of the ready Lua tasks have run the Lua scheduler calls a single
iteration of the libuv event loop.  When the libuv event loop is complete
the process starts again.

Libuv Event Sweep

The libuv event sweep examines all queued system requests and dispatches
handlers for them.  All completed I/O and events are processed and any
system request responses constructed. 

Wait Mode

If there are no ready events and no system responses the event loop waits for
I/O, otherwise it returns to the Lua scheduler.  This is handled by enabling
a background monitor in the event loop.  This is a somewhat arcane 
subject area not covered very well even in the libuv documentation. More 
information is available in the documentation for 'libev', the predecessor
to libuv.

Support Threads

Cross-platform event synchronization and maintenance requires the occasional
background kernel process to run.  The most notable of these in Node9 is the
background keyboard process. The keyboard process simply monitors the console
keyboard for new characters and special sequences.  When it detects these it
generates a keyboard event and sends it to the main console driver as an
asynchronous interprocess message.

Anatomy of A System Call

Each Lua task can issue any system call specified in the Inferno sys library.
Each time a task issues a system call it implicitly releases the CPU.  The
easiest way to illustrate this process is to show the Lua kernel code for a
simple call.

    function self.seek(fd, offset, start)
        local c_proc = sched.curproc
        c_proc.s_seek.fd = fd
        c_proc.s_seek.off = offset
        c_proc.s_seek.start = start
        n9.sysreq(c_proc.vproc, n9.Sys_seek)
        coroutine.yield()
        return c_proc.s_seek.ret
    end

This is the seek call to set the current position within an open file.
(Here "self" is just the handle to the current module "sys")

The call accepts a file descriptor, the offset and the relative start
setting.  The first thing the call does is to retrieve the context
of the callling task.  Each task (here called c_proc), has a sysrequest
buffer which conforms to the selected call.

The interface between the Lua system call and the C kernel call is handled by a
feature unique to the LuaJIT VM called the Foreign Function Interface (FFI).
All kernel calls are described as a set of C structures and handlers passed to
a common C kernel call interface.  The FFI dynamically constructs an interface
at kernel startup to marshall and demarshall the arguments from Lua to C and
back again.

In the case of our 'seek' call, we place the file descriptor, offset and 
start location into the sys request buffer and issue the 'sysreq' C kernel
call.  The C kernel call simply places the request into the system request
queue along with a pointer to the C handler "n9.Sys_seek".

Now that the request is queued, the current task yields the CPU.  When the
task is rescheduled by the Lua scheduler (because it received a response), it
simply returns the value returned in the "seek" request.

Spawning A New Task

Spawning a new task in Node9 is relatively straightforward.  You call
sys.spawn with the start function and the arguments you want to pass it and 
the Lua kernel creates a coroutine and Lua process structure to support it.
The kernel then sets the start function and schedules the task.

Spawning A New Thread

.. describe initializing a new kernel process, proc caps and libuv support ..

Starting A New Application

Applications are contained in a module similar to library modules.  They 
start execution in their "init" function.

New applications are normally started by /appl/sh.lua, but here are a few
details of how this works.  The new application is forked from the current
process using the sys.spawn function and specifying command line arguments,
start function and other misc arguments.  

The app start function creates a new stdio environment and imports the 
application module into the current task environment.  If the application
module loads successfully, its "init" method is called along with an 
argv table.

Application Environments and Task Segregation

Just as each Lua task has it's own local variable space, each Node9 application
is granted it's own execution environment which contains various runtime
support values as well as the global application variable name space.  All
global variable references made by application tasks are dynamically remapped
into the application's private global space.  All tasks within the same
application share this space.

Waiting For Process PIDs and Process Completion

When any process completes, the scheduler returns it's PID, name and error 
status to any process waiting to read a line from /prog/<pid>/wait.  In the
case of applications, the return value will be the application's root 'pid'.

(Early in Node9's development the shell bypassed this technique and read the
same values from a sync channel shared between the parent and child
processes.)

Exception Handling

The way that Lua handles exceptions as well as the fact that Plan9 and Inferno
return error strings instead of error "codes" creates a rather unique 
exception handling environment.

Normally lua runtime errors are caught via the pcall mechanism.  This is still
the case within Node9, although this can get a little bit tricky since the 
coroutine.resume function that resumes execution of task also acts as a 
pcall.  If a task performs a pcall and a Lua exception occurs before the task
yields, the task's own recovery takes place.   If an intervening system
call occurs then the coroutine.resume's pcall handling is initiated.

If there is no pending pcall, then the coroutine.resumes implicit pcall 
mechanism acts as the default exception handler.

This is just how task exceptions are caught, not necessarily reported.

The canonical way to return error status to the shell in Node9 is the following:

(1) If no error has occurred then don't do anything.  The scheduler will return 
an empty error string to the waiting shell process.

(2) If an application error has occurred, but it's not a fatal execution error
then execute error("fail:<messsage>").  This will stop the application and 
return <message> in the shell's "lasterr" variable.

(3) If the application experiences an unexpected abort, the scheduler will catch
it and report the cause to the shell.  The shell's 'lasterr' variable will 
then contain "module abort".

TARGET APPLICATIONS

.. discuss various application areas ..

Scientific and Grid Computing

Simulation, AI and Gaming

Network Command and Control

Cloud Computing and Control

Big Data

DIRECTORY STRUCTURE

- node9 root directory
- subsystem library dependencies (./libuv, ./luajit)
- primary source code ./src
   o kernel code: styx/svcs
   o kernel support libraries: styx/libs
   o build utils: styx/utils
   o premake and make files (premake5.lua)
   o legacy platform dependendies (remaining) styx/platform
- build directories (src/build/*)
- target directories (bin, lib)
- node9 runtime (./fs)
- node9 applications (fs/appl, fs/appl/<appname>)
- node9 loadable  modules and shared C headers (fs/module)
- node9 lua kernel components (fs/os/lib)
- node9 lua bootstrap (fs/os/init)
- system documentation (doc)


BUILD, USER AND PORTABILITY NOTES

- Building Node9 -

Node9 uses the lua-based 'premake' (version 5) tool to generate the makefiles.
It's open source and available for nearly all POSIX and Windows platforms.

Node9 currently builds on MacOSX and 64 bit Linux.  It's designed to be
completely portable across POSIX and Windows platforms, however the 'libuv'
porting modifications aren't fully complete.

It may take a few iterations on the source code with the help of other users to
make it fully portable "out of the box".

Node9 contains relatively recent copies of it's dependent libraries "libuv" and
"luajit".   Node9's build process tries to build them before it builds
itself.  LuaJIT can easily build itself, but libuv requires 'autotools' on 
POSIX platforms.  Autotools are usually available via various OS package
managers.  For OSX and Macports the command is:

port install autoconf

For other package managers on OSX, Linux and Windows "Your Mileage May Vary"

After 'autoconf' is installed...

Select the node9 build type and host OS target to bulid for.  Build types are 
'debug', 'development' and 'release'. OS target types are: "macosx", "freebsd", 
"netbsd", "openbsd", "dragonfly", "solaris", "windows" and "android".  All of
these are currently assumed to be X86_64 architecture.

(Check the status page to see which build types and host OS targets are
currently supported.)

Edit the 'rebuild.sh' script and enter the build type and target OS on the
make line, like this: make config=debug_macosx

Execute the following command to build the system:

sh rebuild.sh

After the build is finished, the 'node9' executable will be in the 'bin'
subdirectory of the Node9 distribution.  The runtime shared library
will be generated in the "lib" subdirectory.

Installation scripts will eventually be included in the distribution to 
place the runtime system in a convenient filesystem location.

- Startup Notes - 

To test Node9 simply edit the 'run.sh' script to reflect your operating
systems dynamic library load path environment variable and execute it.

On POSIX platforms the "root" directory of Node9 (the 'fs' directory in
the source distribution) is set by the following
rules:

(a) The NODE9ROOT environment variable will be used if set.
(b) If NODE9ROOT isn't set, the root directory is <currentworkingdir>/fs

On Windows:

(a) The NODE9ROOT environment variable will be used if set.
(b) If NODE9ROOT isn't set, the root directory is "\node9"

The Node9 root directory can be manually overridden using the 'r' 
commandline option.

- Shell Notes -

In the initial release of Node9 the shell is very basic.  It understands
how to run lua programs and has several built-in commands to make life 
easier.  If the first character of the command line is a space it will
interpret the rest of the line as an immediate mode Lua statement allowing
you to define functions, evaluate expressions etc.

This initial release has no job control, pipes or background execution although
"the hooks are in there".  Seriously.  Just check in 'appl/sh'.

 - built in commands 

The commands 'ls', 'cat' and 'cd'  are built into the shell and allow you to
navigate the current namespace and examine the contents of files.

 - execution envionments

Each external lua application has it's own execution environment and contains
it's own global variable space.  No application can interfere directly with
another one.  Each task in the application has it's own local variable space,
but shares the common application global variable space.

 - job control

(not yet implemented) 

 - return codes

(see the exception handling discussion)

- network configuration

(explain the 'exportfs', 'mount', 'unmount' CLI apps and how to
setup SSL operation)
(see the inferno distribution's doc/install.pdf file for 
more detailed information on this until we update the docs)

- shutdown

(control-D)

STATUS AND CURRENT FOCUS

- Areas Under Heavy Construction

 - system calls -

As of the initial release almost all of the Inferno system calls have been
implemented.  The only ones that haven't been implemented are related to the
service calls that allow you to develop network services directly in Lua or
depend on these calls..

These are:

sys.file2chan:
  directs 9p network read and write requests to lua read / write
channels.

sys.pipe:
  creates a bidirectional stream for inter-process reading/writing

sys.stream:
  reads or writes from src to dest until the operation fails
  (unrelated to lua services, just not done yet)

sys.fversion and fauth
  used for low-level 9p communications
  (unrelated to lua services, just not done yet)

The rest of the system calls (fully operational) are:

open, create, dup, filedes, seek, iounit, read, readn, pread, write, pwrite,
sprint, print, fprint, stat, fstat, wstat, fwstat, dirread, errstr, bind, 
mount, unmount, remove, chdir, fd2path, dial, announce, listen, export,
sleep, millisec, pctl, spawn

 - call notes -

The primary I/O calls (read, write etc) interact directly with low-level C-based
read and write calls.  Because of this they require efficient, high performance
byte buffers.  Whle Lua provides a very useful string buffer, appending to
these buffers requires a great deal of memory management overhead.  Node9
provides a very powerful byte buffer mechanism to provide an interface between
OS buffers and Lua character strings.  Copying strings in and out of the 
byte buffers can be done very easily using the LuaJIT FFI utility functions.

Stat calls generally accept a Lua structure to pass stat values to and from the
kernel.

To see how these functions are used, please read the 'sh' source code as well
as reading the built-in 'cat' command and mount/unmount applications.

Basic 'pctl' support is implemented to create new namespaces and duplicate
file streams.  Full implementation will be concurrent with the release of
multiuser capabilities.

- Remaining Kernel Servers / Drivers

Several kernel services and devices remain to be ported because they require
fine-grained interaction between the Inferno "process" model and the Lua
scheduler.   These are:

  - devprog: allows fine-grain interaction with processs
  - devprof: allows profiling of programs
  - devdynld: allows dynamic loading of libraries (external lang support)
  - devsrv: allows lua-based services
  - devpipe: inter-process, inter-application pipes

Of these devprog (/proc), devsrv and devpipe are the highest priority.

- Libuv portability

A number of system and kernel calls still use the old Inferno portability 
layer for host system read, write etc.  A major focus of near-term development 
is the conversion of I/O to libuv which should increase portability and
performance significantly.  This also enables the full development of the
cloud-oriented aspects of the kernel.

- Cloud Management, Interaction and Apps

When the libuv conversion is complete, a number of ajax-based administration
and monitoring apps will be included.

- Test Subsystem -

Functional and unit tests of Node9 are scattered throughout the author's 
laptop.  Formal inclusion of these tests will make maintenance and scaling
much more reliable.

 - Demo Apps

Demos are currently being considered in a number of areas.  Please feel free to
suggest any ideas that seem useful.

- Contributing To Project

Contributing developers are more than welcome.   Read/write access to the 
repository is simply based on an understanding of the fundamentals, a willingness
to help out, document the project and have fun.

- Example Session 

node9 First Edition (20150523), build: 1432340974  main (pid=71743)
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  node9/kernel: initializing terminal
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  node9/kernel: loading
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  node9/kernel: initializing namespace
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  node9/kernel: binding standard streams
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  node9/kernel: initializing host environment
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  node9/kernel: accepting requests
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  node9/kernel: starting luaspace ...
Sun May 31 21:06:28 2015  signals set
(/appl/sh): started
[the time on the console is Sun May 31 15:06:28 2015]
; ls
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 dev
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 fd
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 prog
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 prof
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 net
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 net.alt
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 chan
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 nvfs
d-r-xr-xr-x      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:32 2015 env
--rw-r--r--      jburnes        staff         6148   Thu May 21 15:45:05 2015 .DS_Store
d-rwxr-xr-x      jburnes        staff            0   Fri May 29 13:26:59 2015 appl
d-rwxr-xr-x      jburnes        staff            0   Fri May 29 13:25:28 2015 lib
d-rwxr-xr-x      jburnes        staff            0   Fri May 29 13:25:28 2015 man
d-rwxr-xr-x      jburnes        staff            0   Fri May 29 13:26:59 2015 module
d-rwxr-xr-x      jburnes        staff            0   Fri May 29 13:26:59 2015 os
; ls dev
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 cons
---w--w--w-      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 consctl
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 drivers
--rw-r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 hostowner
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 hoststdin
---w--w--w-      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 hoststdout
---w--w--w-      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 hoststderr
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 jit
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 keyboard
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 kprint
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 memory
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes           11   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 msec
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 notquiterandom
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 null
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 random
--r--r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 scancode
--rw-r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 sysctl
--rw-r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 sysname
--rw-r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 time
--rw-r--r--      jburnes      jburnes            0   Sun May 31 15:06:37 2015 user
; cat /dev/drivers
#/ root
#e env
#c cons
#M mnt
#| pipe
#d dup
#D ssl
#U fs
#I ip
; cat /dev/sysctl
First Edition (20150523); 
; 
; cat /dev/time
1433106436972008; 
; cat /dev/user
jburnes; 
; ls env
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes            3   Sun May 31 15:07:39 2015 cputype
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes            7   Sun May 31 15:07:39 2015 emuargs
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes           27   Sun May 31 15:07:39 2015 emuroot
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes            6   Sun May 31 15:07:39 2015 emuhost
--rw-rw-rw-      jburnes      jburnes           24   Sun May 31 15:07:39 2015 emuwdir
; cat env/cputype
386; 
; cat env/emuargs
./node9; 
; cat env/emuroot
/Users/jburnes/dev/node9/fs; 
; cat env/emuhost
MacOSX; 
; cat env/emuwdir
/Users/jburnes/dev/node9; 
; ^D
Sun May 31 21:08:15 2015  node9/kernel: restoring terminal
Sun May 31 21:08:15 2015  node9/kernel: halted


